---
title: "Toward a practical quantification of uncertainty in ocean heat content (OHC) due to data quality control (QC) procedures"
collection: talks
type: "Talks"
permalink: /talks/2022-02-01-talk-1
venue: "Ocean Sciences Meeting 2022"
date: 2022-02-26
location: "Hawaii, USA"
---

Ocean heat content (OHC) is a fundamental indicator for climate change. Understanding and quantifying the uncertainty in OHC record and the underlyinggridded product is an essential work. One of the uncertainty (error) sources is the Quality-Control process (QC). However, the quantitative estimate on this uncertainty source is missing to our knowledge.

This talk will include two parts: firstly, we will present a new automatic QC systemfor ocean *in-situ* temperature observations (we refer it as COMS-QC), which includes 6 main checks (Crude Range Check, Maximum Depth Check, Spike Check, Constant Value Check, Gradient check, Local Climatology Check and Local Gradient Climatology Check). In particular, we constructed an improved temperature climatology field (including mean, median, standard deviation, 95% quantile, 99% quantile, skewness, and kurtosis) to support the local (gradient) climatology check, which is shown to be effective in removing spurious data.

Secondly, we compared the performance of COMS-QC with other QC systems(e.g., NOAA's Atlantic Oceanographic and Meteorological Laboratory, Integrated Climate Data Center, NOAA/NCEI etc.) using several benchmark metrics. We use the spread of global and regional OHCs after applying different QC systems to quantify the uncertainty, which should be grouped as a practical method. Results will be presented and discussed. Our results show a surprisingly large uncertainty due to different choices of QC from regional to global scales, for example, the linear trend of global 0-2000m OHC differs by 14% for the period of 1991-2020 between COMS-QC and WOD-QC (6% for the period of 2005-2017).

 
