---
title: "A new ocean data quality control system reveals a stronger ocean warming rate"
collection: talks
type: "talk"
permalink: /talks/2023-07-01-talk-2
venue: "IUGG 2023"
date: 2023-07
location: "Berlin, Germany"

---

Over the past century, more than 20 million *in-situ* profiles with heterogeneous quality had been collected, leading to a high demand of a quality control (QC) procedure to identify outliers efficiently, accurately, and automatically. In this study, we present a new automatic QC system (namely CODC-QC) for ocean temperature and salinity observations. Unlike many existing QC procedures, no assumption is made of a Gaussian distribution law in CODC-QC as the statistical distribution of the variables are typically skewed. Instead, the 99% quantiles are used as thresholds to define the local climatological ranges. In addition, these thresholds are time-varying, which aims at reducing erroneously excluding good real-time data. The above strategies are used in the local climatological range check for temperature, salinity and vertical temperature gradient, in which the anisotropic feature of water properties and the topography barriers adjustment is accounted for. Additionally, the CODC-QC under the benchmark evaluation was applied to all temperature and salinity profiles in the World Ocean Database from 1940 to 2021. Result shows a significant dependency of the quality on instrumentation types. Finally, as ocean heat content (OHC) is a fundamental indicator of climate change, the impact of different QC systems on OHC estimation is examined. We found that applying CODC-QC will lead to a 15% stronger warming rate within 1991–2021 compared to the application of WOD-QC (NOAA/NCEI), implying a non-negligible source of error in OHC estimate. The new AutoQC system could support further improvement of the ocean sciences and other applications.

